This is the ultimate Fortnite Chapter 7
optimization guide. I've made tons of
highly rated optimization guides and
tested every one of these tweaks across
multiple systems. And by the end of this
video, you will get higher and more
consistent FPS, less input delay, and an
overall more responsive system. Let's
start by opening Fortnite and going to
the settings tab. Starting from the top
in display settings, we have window
mode. Here you have three options. The
first two options, full screen and
windowed full screen, are both
competitively viable options here, and
even pros are split on this because both
settings have their own benefits.
Typically, full screen offers slightly
lower input delay, while windowed full
screen usually gives you higher average
FPS. As long as you avoid regular
windowed mode, though, you're good to
go. Next is resolution. This should
always be set to your monitor's native
resolution. And if you selected windowed
full screen just now, the game selects
your monitor's resolution automatically.
Never lower this to gain FPS as it will
make your HUD look blurry and terrible.
We will instead be adjusting the 3D
resolution later to increase your
performance without sacrificing the
clarity of your HUD. Moving on to
VSSync, you should leave this off for
the best possible input delay. For frame
rate limit, cap it to your monitor's
refresh rate or whatever number your PC
can consistently reach. This will give
you better frame timing and perceived
smoothness compared to unlimited. But if
you want, definitely try unlimited or
capping your FPS above your monitor's
refresh rate for even less latency as
long as your GPU is not at 100% usage
because that's where you might run into
those frame time issues. The next
setting is rendering mode. At the start
of Chapter 6, Season 4, the new
performance mode was harder to recommend
because of the bugs. But with the bugs
fixed now, it feels virtually identical
to the old legacy performance mode. But
you might be wondering why I still use
and recommend the new performance mode
when clearly the FPS is lower. Well,
when you get into a real game with lots
of players, the game becomes much more
demanding for the CPU. And legacy
performance mode, which runs on DX11, is
simply not as good at utilizing CPU
resources. So, in those big build
fights, your FPS should be higher and
more consistent with the new performance
mode. And if you're on an AMD GPU, DX12
will pretty much always run better than
DX11. Obviously, it's not going to be
the same for everyone, especially for
people with lower-end GPUs, legacy
performance mode might still be better
for you. Moving into the graphics
section, none of these settings affect
performance in the slightest, but can
improve player and object visibility. I
personally like to keep them all on
their default settings, though you might
want to experiment with the three
colorblind modes, as some pro players do
play with them on. And if you're
actually color blind, I'm sure these
settings can help a lot. Moving on to
the graphics quality section. This is
where you can decrease your 3D
resolution to significantly increase
your FPS if you're running into a GPU
bottleneck. However, if your GPU is
barely being used, decreasing your 3D
res will do nothing but make players and
objects harder to see. [music] So, in
that case, don't touch the setting at
all. Underneath that is dynamic 3D
resolution, which is only adjustable if
you decrease your 3D res below 100%.
Now, it's been in the DX11 and DX12
settings since early 2023, but was
silently added to performance mode
sometime last season. But this basically
allows your game to automatically
increase your 3D resolution from the
percentage you set just now whenever
your GPU is being underutilized. I would
personally never touch this because I
much prefer a consistent viewing
experience rather than having my
resolution increase and decrease out of
nowhere. But if that sounds appealing to
you, then feel free to turn this on.
Now, as of the time of recording, view
distance doesn't affect anything except
how far you can see items. This includes
things like guns, consumables, ammo, and
other pickups. It has no impact on
players or structures. Because of that,
I keep this setting maxed out regardless
of the specs since it doesn't really
affect performance, but helps a lot,
especially off spawn when you're trying
to spot a gun to land on. Below that is
textures. This doesn't affect your FPS
unless you run out of VRAM, but I always
keep these on the lowest possible
setting anyways because I don't even
have high-quality textures installed, as
you can tell by this blob of text here.
For me, I recommend low meshes for 99%
of people as it makes the game easier to
run and increases visibility in those
chaotic build fights. Additionally, the
breaking animations on low meshes are a
couple frames shorter, so it makes it
much more competitively viable. So,
unless you like the look of high meshes,
stick with a low. Then scroll down to
the advanced graphics section and turn
on show FPS if you haven't already.
Latency markers are only a thing for
Nvidia GPUs, and this is only used if
you turn on the latency debug stats in
the game UI section. If you enable both
of these, it will show this little thing
at the top left of your screen. And if
you have either of these settings
disabled, it will not show up. The only
reason you would turn on latency markers
is if you want these stats. So don't
worry about turning this on or off if
you don't really care. Something that
you should care about is your ping. And
that's where real-time network
optimization actually matters. As an NAE
player, I used to get 40 ping on NA
central, but the moment I turned on exit
lag, it dropped it to eight. Even on my
own servers where my ping was already
good, exit lag rerouted my connection
through optimized paths and brought it
all the way down to one ping. With
results that crazy, it's no surprise
that even Peterbot uses Exit Lag. And
he's not even sponsored by them. But how
does it work? It works by creating
multiple optimized routes to the game
server in real time, then automatically
switching to the fastest one. And the
best part is that you can try it
completely free. No credit card needed.
Just click the link in the description
or scan the QR code on screen, make an
account, and your free trial starts
instantly. Once it's installed, choose
from over 2,000 supported games and see
what it does for your connection. If you
like the free trial, take advantage of
their Black Friday limited time deal to
get 50% off one year of Exit Lag, plus
three extra months for free. So try Exit
Lag with the link below. It might just
become your new favorite app. Next is
Nvidia Reflex low latency. This setting
only applies to Nvidia GPUs, so if
you're on AMD or Intel GPUs, you can
skip it. To briefly explain what this
does, without Reflex, your CPU cues up
frames for the GPU, so there's always at
least one frame ready to display. Now,
that's great for smooth visuals in
single player games, but in esport
titles like Fortnite, those cued frames
are slightly delayed because they were
pre-rendered and waiting to be
displayed. But with Nvidia Reflex on,
that render queue is minimized as small
as possible, so you're always seeing the
newest frame, which obviously lowers
input latency. This also means that you
might lose a few FPS, especially if you
have an underpowered CPU. So, it's worth
testing it on and off to see what feels
best for you. But for most people,
having it on works really well. But
there's a second option here. You can
also select on plus boost. Now, because
Fortnite is a CPUbound game, your GPU
downclocks a lot, especially if you're
on a laptop where the GPU prioritizes
efficiency. And this downclocking can
add a tiny bit of latency, obviously,
because your GPU is running slower.
Having boost enabled just makes it so
that your GPU doesn't drop into those
low power states, and it's able to
quickly react and increase its clock
speeds and power to generate those
frames as quickly as possible. As you
can see with this example, with boost
enabled, it'll spike up to 2655 MHz and
100 Ws of power usage when it needs to.
But without boost, it never goes above
2600 MHz or 92 watts of power, even when
the game suddenly requires the GPU to
work harder. So, it's in these areas
where having boost would give you better
latency. However, this can raise GPU
temperatures by up to 5°. So, make sure
your system has good air flow and
cooling. Obviously, don't use it on an
old Quadro graphics card that has a
single tiny fan. And just like standard
reflex, test on plus boost for yourself
to see what feels best for you. And
finally, for report performance stats,
all this does is send your performance
stats to Epic Games, which will slightly
impact your game. So, if you would
rather have more FPS than be a guinea
pig for a multi-billion dollar company,
turn it off. And just before we finish
up the Fortnite optimizations and get
into the essential Windows tweaks for
best performance, go to the game tab up
top and scroll down until you see the
replay section. I normally say to just
turn these off, and you should still
turn them off if you don't use them. But
if you ever wanted to review your
replays or take a cinematic shot of
something, saving replays only really
affects your SSD or hard drive. So, as
long as you have a modern SSD, there's
no reason as to why you shouldn't leave
these on. Now that you've fully
optimized Fortnite, it's time to dive
into the Windows optimizations to get
the most performance out of your PC. But
before we start, you should know there's
essentially no difference between these
tweaks and the ones I covered in my
recent Windows optimization video. I
will be adding a ton of new
optimizations in my next guide in 2026.
But to be honest, if you watch that last
video, there's not much point in
watching the rest of this one. And as I
say time and time again, if you've
watched any of my previous videos
before, this will be a lot less useful
than if you've never seen my videos
before. With that being said, let's get
right into the essential Windows
optimizations that I do every single
time I set up a new PC. Starting by
creating a restore point. So, if
anything goes wrong as you apply these
Windows tweaks, you can use this restore
point to easily revert any changes you
have made. To create a restore point,
press your Windows key, type in create,
and press enter. Then click on
configure, turn on system protection,
and click okay. Now that that's enabled,
click create. Give it a name. Click on
create again. And shortly after, it
should tell you that a restore point has
been created successfully. With the
system restore point created, we can
move on to the first essential Windows
optimizations. Starting with game mode.
So, press your Windows key, search for
game mode, open the game mode settings,
and turn this on. This just tells your
CPU and GPU to prioritize your game over
background processes. In the same menu,
click on graphics, then change default
graphics settings and enable
optimizations for windowed games. If
you're still using legacy performance
mode, this just makes your PC use a
newer presentation model for your game
that makes it run better. If you're
using the new performance mode, though,
this doesn't change anything. But I
still recommend having it on because
Fortnite is probably not the only game
you play. Hopefully, [music]
you might also see a setting in here
called hardware accelerated GPU
scheduling, which I also suggest
enabling as well. Having this on is
actually a requirement for certain
features like DLSS frame generation in
other games. But to quickly explain what
this does, GPU scheduling is normally
done entirely on the CPU. But with this
on, the GPU can do some of that
scheduling for itself, taking some of
the load off of the CPU. And this is
massive for a CPU intensive game like
Fortnite. But keep in mind, there is a
chance it causes stuttering, so disable
it if that happens. Next, we're going to
disable core isolation. This is a
virtualizationbased security measure
that heavily impacts your CPU
performance. And antiviruses like
Windows security and malware bites are
much more effective without reducing
your gaming performance by 2 to 5% like
core isolation does. To disable core
isolation, press your Windows key and
search for core isolation. In here,
toggle memory integrity off. This change
will apply when you restart your PC. I
also recommend leaving everything else
alone. These will not impact your FPS.
What will impact your FPS is all the
bloatware that comes with Windows. So,
let's remove all that unnecessary
Windows bloatware by using the latest
version of Chris Titus Tech's Windows
utility. It's free, safe, super
userfriendly, and you only really need
to do this if you've never done it
before or after a Windows feature
update. If you're skeptical about this,
you can technically do all of this
manually, but this will save you so much
time, so I highly recommend it. To run
Winutil on your PC, press your Windows
key, type PowerShell, and then click run
as admin. Then copy and paste the first
line in the description and press enter.
[music] Be sure to copy this entire
line, not just the link. After pressing
enter, a window that looks like this
should pop up. We're going to go
straight into the tweaks tab at the top.
But before clicking on run tweaks, let's
take a look at the advanced tweak
section. These are the settings that I
personally like to use, but be sure to
hover your mouse over each tweak to make
sure that you know exactly what
everything is [music] doing. You never
want to follow a YouTube tutorial
without knowing what something does. I
have Adobe Network block off because I
like to use Adobe websites like Adobe
Express. I have set display for
performance disabled because we're going
to manually adjust these settings later
in the video so we get the same
performance boost without making Windows
11 look like trash. Um, set hibernation
as default should only be enabled if
you're on a laptop. And finally, I
highly recommend against removing all
Microsoft Store apps. It removes a ton
of useful apps like snipping tool.
Having said that, this is what I like to
run on all my systems. So, you can
safely copy this, but make changes as
you'd like. With all that done, click
run tweaks at the bottom. And after a
few minutes, this window will pop up
saying tweaks are finished, and you can
close everything off. With your PC now
fully debloed, let's take a look at the
power plans because they can have a
massive impact on your performance. To
access your power plans, press the
Windows key, search choose a power plan,
and open the power options. By default,
you're not going to see the ultimate
performance power plan in here, so I'm
going to show you how to add it. It
works best on mid to high-end systems.
So, if you have an absolute potato, you
might want to skip this part of the
video entirely. Essentially, what
Ultimate does is it just keeps your CPU
from dropping into a low power state, so
you'll get less FPS drops and stutters.
This doesn't mean that your CPU is going
to choke itself at the highest possible
clock speeds all the time. So, now that
you know what the ultimate power plan
does, open command prompt as
administrator, copy and paste this line
from the description, and hit enter.
Once you refresh the power options by
backing out and going back in, the
ultimate performance power plan will
appear in your additional plans and you
can easily select it. From there, all
you need to do is figure out which plan
[music] works best for your system. And
it's super easy to test because again,
you can switch plans instantly without
restarting your computer. For some
people, the balance plan will give the
best results, but for others, the
ultimate performance plan is better. But
by running these tests for yourself,
you'll know exactly which power plan is
the best for your PC. Moving on to the
Nvidia GPU optimizations. AMD users,
skip to the next chapter of this video.
From my own testing, as well as Nvidia's
own articles, taking 2 minutes to change
these settings can unlock a pretty
sizable performance increase. There's
also a very convenient reset to defaults
button as well if you're still
skeptical. So, let's get straight into
the Nvidia control panel. If you've
never opened this up before, it will ask
you to agree to some terms and
conditions. So, just click agree and
continue. Then, click on manage 3D
settings at the top left. This is where
we're going to change eight settings to
make your game run better. The first
three of which are changes that everyone
should make no matter what Nvidia GPU
you have. The first setting we're going
to change is OpenGL rendering GPU. Just
set that to whatever GPU you want to use
while gaming. This setting won't do
anything for Fortnite since it isn't an
OpenGL application, but this setting is
literally right there, so you might as
well change it. So, if you ever use any
sort of OpenGL based software in the
future, this will prevent your GPU from
accidentally selecting the wrong GPU.
The second setting you should change is
your shader cache size. [music] Just
increase that up to 10 GB. The reason we
use 10 GB is because if the driver
default is 4 gigs, for example, when you
fill that up, your GPU is going to
delete shaders to free up space for new
ones. That means if you ever go back
into an area where you need that deleted
shader again, your game could stutter as
it reloads back into the cache. The
third and final setting that everyone
should change is vertical sync. Turn
that off. The next five settings depend
entirely on your specific computer and
personal preference, so change these as
you'd like. Anti-aliasing gamma
correction doesn't affect your FPS in
the slightest, but disabling it does
give in-game objects slightly sharper
edges, whereas leaving it enabled gives
you slightly more accurate brightness
around these edges. On the other hand,
low latency mode has a huge impact on
latency, but it can decrease your FPS if
you have lower-end hardware. However, we
already adjusted the Nvidia reflex
settings in Fortnite earlier in this
video, and that setting actually
overrides this one. But for any games
that don't have reflex built-in, I would
recommend setting this to on for mid-end
systems, off for lower-end systems, and
ultra only if you're willing to
sacrifice a little bit of your average
FPS for better latency. So, if your PC
can output more FPS than you need
already, you might as well just use
ultra. But once again, the Nvidia reflex
setting in Fortnite will override this
anyways. This just changes the settings
for any games that don't have reflex.
Next is power management mode. Change
this to prefer maximum performance.
Based on my testing, this makes a huge
positive impact on 1% lows and frame
times without increasing your clock
speeds or temperatures in game. But when
idle or doing low inensity tasks, this
will make your system slightly less
efficient. So you may want to stick to
normal if you're on a poorly cooled
computer. And finally, for the last two
settings, drop texture filtering quality
down to high performance and enable
anotropic sample optimization. These two
changes will reduce GPU cycles at a
slight cost of your game's visuals. But
yeah, once you're happy with all your
changes, click apply and you're done.
Now for the AMD GPU tweaks. These few
changes not only boosted my 1% loads,
but also dropped my RAM and VRAMm usage
by a full GB each. I do realize that
this section of the video is a lot
shorter than the Nvidia section, but I
promise I will be adding more for AMD
GPU users for 2026. Anyways, if you want
results like these, open up your AMD
software. This is where we'll be making
all of the changes. Click the settings
cog at the top right, then preferences.
Turn off everything in here unless you
need any of these on for whatever
reason. And the same thing goes for the
hotkeys. Just turn them off unless you
need them. Then click on gaming at the
top and then graphics. Scrolling down to
texture filtering quality. Change that
from standard to performance. Because
we're already using low textures in
Fortnite, you probably won't even see
the difference. The next setting,
surface format optimization, is the main
reason why Fortnite uses way less RAM
and VRAMm after these GPU tweaks. So
definitely turn this on, especially if
you run into low memory issues. And for
tessellation mode, select override and
set the maximum tessellation level to
off to make the game as easy to run as
possible. After optimizing your GPU,
we're going to very quickly change our
advanced system settings in 30 seconds.
[music] To be honest, this doesn't have
the potential to boost your FPS nearly
as much as some of the other
optimizations in this video, especially
if you have a decent PC, but it's
definitely worth your 30 seconds to free
up some RAM and CPU cycles. Super useful
for the budget ballers. So, press your
Windows key, search for advanced system
settings, and open those up. Below
performance, click on settings. Simply
select adjust for best performance. But
be sure to at least select these three
settings at the bottom so your Windows
doesn't look like complete garbage.
Moving on to the registry editor tweaks.
These gave me 23.7% better 1% lows. So,
do not skip this part. [music] So, open
up the registry editor by pressing your
Windows key and searching for the
registry editor. Make sure to open it as
administrator. Before making any changes
to the registry editor, we're going to
export the registry so you can quickly
switch back to default settings without
having to use your restore point. Simply
click on file at the top left, click on
export, and save it somewhere. Now, we
can get into the actual tweaks. The
first optimization we're going to do is
set the scheduling category to high. You
can find the setting by copying this
path from the description and pasting it
up here. After pressing enter, you'll
find yourself in this folder. And all
you have to do is double click on
scheduling category and change the
string value to high. Make sure you put
a capital H or this will not work as
intended. What this does is it basically
tells Windows to treat your game as an
urgent task. So your system gives
Fortnite higher CPU scheduling priority,
reducing stutters and input delay. Also
note that when you change this value to
high, it automatically treats it as if
you set priority to two. So you don't
need to change priority at all. And
until Microsoft updates their
documentation, the GPU priority and SFIO
priority values still don't do anything.
But once you've set scheduling category
to high, that's all you need to do here.
You're fully optimized. even if my old
videos or other YouTubers say you should
be changing these other values in here.
The second registry tweak we're going to
do is change the Win32 priority
separation value. By changing this
number, you control how Windows splits
CPU resources between foreground apps,
Fortnite for example, and background
tasks. And as you'd probably expect,
Windows puts a lot of focus into
telemetry and background tasks. So,
we're just going to shift more of that
priority towards the game. So, copy and
paste this line down in the description
into the address bar up top. Then double
click on win32 priority separation. The
best value should be 26 hexodimal
because it gives your game a high
foreground boost, meaning Windows
prioritizes the app you're focused on
and it sets long variable quantums,
meaning more stable frame times.
However, this will not be the best value
for everyone. So, here are some other
values that are widely regarded as good
for gaming to fully optimize your PC.
For a detailed explanation on this
topic, I highly recommend my guy Corvy
Tech's article on this. He explains
everything about this topic super well
on there. Diving into a quick internet
tweak, we're going to optimize your
connection by disabling network
throttling. This can help reduce network
latency, and I've never had issues with
this optimization after testing this on
all of my devices on multiple different
internet connections. But just like the
other registry tweaks, this is still a
setting that you should test separately
from the others because ping is equally
as important as FPS in this game. So,
copy and paste this line from the
description. Now, when you get to this
folder, network throttling index may not
show up, but as long as you're in this
folder, just right click on an empty
space, click new, then dword 32-bit
value, and name it network throttling
index. Make sure it's capitalized like
so. To disable this newly created value,
double click it and set it to 8Fs. If
you run into any problems with this
value, you can always change it back to
hexodimal A, the default value. To
finish up the registry tweaks, we're
going to change the system
responsiveness value. It's in the same
folder we were just in, and this
determines the percent of CPU resources
given to background tasks. So, it's very
important that we decrease it as low as
possible without destabilizing your
system. Simply double click on it and
set it to 10 decimal. If you type
anything lower than 10, it gets clamped
to 20. Don't ask me why, that's just how
it works. Finally, it's time for the
BIOS tweaks. Starting with enabling
XMP/DOCCP.
If you haven't already enabled this,
your RAM runs at a lower base speed
called a Jed profile. By enabling XMPP
or DOCP, it'll run at the speed you
actually [music] paid for. But if you
already have this enabled or your RAM is
already running at the speed it should
be, which you can check in your task
manager, skip ahead in this video. But
be sure to check your RAM information
online or in the manual to ensure it
supports this technology first, though,
because you can run into some serious
issues if you try enabling XMP on RAM
that doesn't even support it. If it
does, go into BIOS by simply restarting
your PC and spamming the delete key or
F2. It depends on your motherboard. When
you get into the BIOS, you're probably
going to find the setting right on the
main screen. But if you don't, it's
probably in the AI tweaker,
overclocking, or extreme tweaker tab.
It's always a different name depending
on your motherboard manufacturer, and
you might not even have this option. But
if you do find it, simply change that
setting to enabled or profile one. The
next BIOS tweak we're going to do is
SMT/hyperthreading.
Simultaneous multi-threading or
hyperthreading simply lets each [music]
individual core in your CPU execute two
threads at the same time. To find the
setting, enter your BIOS's advanced
mode. Once you're in advanced mode, it
should be somewhere in the advanced CPU
settings. When you find the SMT or
hyperthreading setting, if you have six
or less cores, set this to auto. And if
you have eight or more, off is typically
the better option for you. Lastly, we're
going to turn on above 4G decoding and
resizable bar. For any GPUs with more
than 4 gigs of VRAM, above 4G decoding
basically lets your system use that VRAM
much more efficiently, and it also
unlocks the resizable bar option. Rebar
allows your CPU to access your VRAM all
at once instead of in 256 megabyte
chunks. And combined, these two settings
can increase your FPS by up to 70% for
Intel GPUs and a more reasonable 10% for
everyone else. Here are some common
locations where you might find these
settings. And again, when you do find
the settings, just change them from
disabled to enable, on, auto, or
whatever the case is for your mobile.
And that is it for my final optimization
guide of 2025. I'm already working hard
on expanding it for 2026 and I won't be
posting another guide until I've added a
significant number of new optimizations.
Either way, I hope you found this video
useful and if you run into any issues,
feel free to leave a comment below. The
community and I are always here to help
you out. So, have a nice day and don't
forget to use code lech in the Fortnite
item shop.